---
layout: single
title: "Welcome to my page!"
permalink: /aboutme/
author_profile: true
---

I'm from Hong Kong. My Chinese/Cantonese name is 駱卓峰 (IPA: lɔːk̚˧ t͡sʰœːk̚˧ foŋ˥; Jyutping: lok6 coek3 fung1). It's transcribed as Lok Cheuk Fung in English but I normally go by Charles.

I'm a linguistics student and I do linguistics research. In my undergraduate years, I started off being interested in theoretical syntax and Chinese linguistics (both Modern Chinese and Ancient Chinese) so I initially majored in Chinese Language and Literature in CUHK. My interest shifted after taking some courses, reading more about linguistics, and talking with some friends. As my interests in interdisciplinary approaches to linguistics had grown, eventually I transferred to the Department of Linguistics and Modern Languages, where I did a corpus study on bilingual acquisition under the excellent supervision and guidance of <a href="http://vyip.cbrchk.org/" target="_blank">Prof. Virginia Yip</a>, <a href="https://professorstephenmatthews.godaddysites.com/" target="_blank">Prof. Stephen Matthews</a>, and <a href="https://www.ling.upenn.edu/~jonhnlee/" target="_blank">Jonathan Him Nok Lee</a>. (<a href="https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/13670069251405684?__cf_chl_f_tk=FQp5lCKUcuInz3C9gIW_KfaVsbKcAH5w2SV0wziB0jg-1783237233-1.0.1.1-Pj8adx0nUadcHAX17_gOO2h00nCKqMH_PlbXf.eCV5o" target="_blank">The study</a> got published in the International Journal of Bilingualism lately btw.) Currently I'd say that my research interests are psycholinguistics and language acquisition.

My research interests are now centred around the questions of how speakers process language in real-time and how this plays a role in language acquisition. I believe figuring out how human acquires language is one of the most difficult and most important problems yet to be solved currently. My current view of the problem is kinda non-Chomskyan: I do think innate constraints on the grammar of human language exist, but I am not sure if these innate constraints are unique to language acquisition (or if they are really exclusive to human beings fundamentally). It is much more convincing to me if these innate constraints are a part of our general cognitive abilities/derived from general cognitive principles, such that they might be found in not only language acquisition, but also some other learning behaviours of ours. It is also more convincing to me if language is so-called human-exclusive simply because human's cognitive abilities are more powerful than other animals thanks to a more complicated neural network (complicated enough such that those innate constraints can emerge/be derived), rather than because human somehow suddenly developed an independent "language faculty" in our brain, which makes less sense when you think of evolution. Recently I am fascinated by Charles Yang's <a href="https://direct.mit.edu/books/monograph/4092/The-Price-of-Linguistic-ProductivityHow-Children" target="_blank">Tolerance Principle (TP)</a>. I think TP reveals a facet of the general cognitive principles I mentioned above. I am excited to see further studies about TP and I hope one day I can be good enough to work on this as well.

Having all that said, I do think generative grammar is a powerful model of language, and many of its notations and concepts are useful in describing langauge. But I just find many of the current assumptions (consciously & unconsciously) adopted by the mainstream generative linguists debatable. For example, all the theories and models in generative grammar & theoretical syntax are independent of time and task, such that they are describing "language itself", aka competence/ I-language in Chomskyan terms. I personally find this assumption extremely debatable and it's necessary to discuss this underlying assumption more. For people who believe that innate constraints on grammar are derived from general cognitive principles (like me), the notion of language competence/ I-language seems confusing. To me, language is embodied in the real-time computational process in our cognitive system, specific to the tasks we are doing (comprehension or production). I believe studying this process helps reveal more about the mystery of language acquisition.

Anyway, these are just some of my current thoughts about linguistics. Since I'm only a student now (haven't even started my Masters study), my view may (and most certainly will) change. I'm more than happy to have discussions, so if you feel like what I just wrote are totally wrong/ missing some important points that I haven't considered/ you agree with me completely or partially, feel free to send me an email! 

Outside of linguistics, I'm a turtle lover, a bookworm, a table tennis leisure player, a moviegoer, an anime fan, and a food lover. I have two turtles. You can check out their photos [here](/turtles/). I think I'm confident enough to say that I read a lot and have a wide range of reading interests, including: literary fictions aka ones that are considered serious (and boring), pop lit, Japanese light novels, basically novels written in or translated to English or Chinese, non-fictions about history, science, fine arts, philosophy, biographies, and even some ancient Chinese texts/classics (I'm also interested in some Jewish classics like Talmud recently). Some of my favourite books in English are Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!, Immortality, Chip War, Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies, the Lords of the Rings (and many more). For Chinese books, some of the authors I really like are 魯迅 (the greatest Chinese writer of all time)、蕭紅、余華、倪匡、金庸、馬家輝etc. I also enjoy watching movies: The Shawshank Redemption, Chungking Express, and Stephen Chow's movies are my all time favourite. For anime (and manga), my favourite two are Attack on Titan and Hikaru no Go. Eating is another important part of my life. Exploring new food is the primary reason I love visiting different places. I'd say I'm quite open to all sorts of cuisines but my favourite cuisines have always been Italian, Vietnamese, Thai, Japanese, and Cantonese food. Btw I have a massive weak spot for pho. It's pretty much the only dish from outside Hong Kong that I must get my fix of every once in a while.

One more thing, if you're from a western cultural background and you're not (much) older than me/ not my teacher/ not my senior of some sort/ not extremely close to me, please don't call me Cheuk Fung coz it feels kinda cringe to me. Charles will do.
<a href="https://youtu.be/T5xyVBqOSog?si=35jf-pyVqysIDbT6" target="_blank">This</a> is a youtube video I found that best explains why it's not the most socially appropriate thing to do in my culture.
